(ambient music)
I simply love physicists.
Mostly because they have the capability of
wrapping their minds around the unseen.
For this very reason, they've been the arm of science
that has been most successful in explaining phenomena
that until now has been relegated to giggles.
The most intriguing subject is that of a force
that has been called by many names, including
"chi" in the Asian healing arts and martial arts vocabulary.
It's a ubiquitous field that permeates all things
and affects all other systems,
but is very difficult to measure.
This is why it makes scientists so edgy
to enter into this field.
Claude Swanson, who is a physicist from MIT and Princeton,
has embraced these challenges,
and has written two amazing books:
"The Synchronized Universe"
and "Life Force: The Scientific Basis,"
in which he explains how this field interfaces with ESP,
remote viewing and remote healing, the flexibility
of time space continuum, and more.
Claude, last time I saw you we were having a wild good time.
I don't know where we went, it was up some little roads
outside of Boulder with Harry Oldfield
and his PIP technology,
into a strange energetic inside a house,
and that's the last time I saw you.
And that story - we'll just let it be that for now.
But you have continued your studies in the scientific realm
of that very kind of energy we were looking for
in the house with Harry Oldfield and his technology,
his camera that day.
And what I'm finding so fascinating is
in your lecture today, you were speaking
about something called torsion, and about technologies
that have been developed in secret
in Russia for a long time,
and have started leaking out from behind
what was The Iron Curtain.
But they're bringing forward some magnificent
understandings of the subtle field that we call - what?
What are all the names for the subtle field?
Well, the Hindus call it prana,
the Chinese call it chi,
Élan Vital, some of the French call it,
vril, some of the Hindus have called it.
It's had lots and lots of names.
So we get the idea we're talking about that subtle
je ne sais quois, right?
And orgones is what Reich called it,
it's the same stuff.
So we're talking about a subtle field that is
very hard to actually measure,
but affects and interacts with every other phenomena known.
Including consciousness.
Because we only have about a half an hour
in this conversation,
I thought we might launch into
some of the discoveries out of Russia
that are talking about this left hand torsion
and the effects of it on our psychic consciousness.
So let's talk about what left hand torsion is,
and what this is you're talking about in general.
Well, it goes back to the early 1950's.
An astrophysicist named Nicholai Kozyrev in Russia
who was looking at double star systems:
one star orbiting the other.
And he noticed that the stars, even though they
start out different, they become like each other
much faster than they should by our current Western physics.
And he realized there was something else
interacting between them,
that they were exchanging an energy,
the one burning fast was sending something
to the one burning slow,
so they would become more like each other.
So they could sustain companionship.
Well he actually called it... the wonderful book
Psychic Discoveries Behind the Iron Curtain,
by Ostrander and Schroeder, a real classic
everybody should read it,
were interviewing him, in 1969 or thereabouts,
and he is describing this, and he says:
"It's as though they were communing by telepathy,"
and he kinda says this with a smile,
and the reason he was smiling is because
the Russians, I think, have discovered that
this is the force, as you call it torsion,
that is responsible for telepathy.
So it is a force that extends over distance.
We don't measure it by electromagnetic means,
so it doesn't show up in our conventional ways,
but it's very important for psychic processes
and for some physical processes,
so that's how it got discovered.
But it does have...
there is a magnetic component to this story as well,
when you start getting into magnetism,
north and south poles, polarities.
Can you talk about that a little bit?
All the way up to geographically
what happens with our awareness?
The north pole of a magnet produces
one pole of this energy.
Torsion comes in two poles: left-handed and right-handed.
One tends to speed things up, one tends to slow things down.
They have a variety of different properties...
What I did in my work is
go back to the German researcher Reichenbach,
in the 1840's and 50's, who also studied the same force,
he had different names for it of course,
but he found that the north pole of a magnet
produces what some sensitive people are able to see
with their eyes in the dark.
It's a bluish light, he called it negative ode,
and the other end, the south pole of the magnet
produced a reddish light which he called positive ode.
Turns out that the positive ode is the same as
left handed torsion in the Russian nomenclature,
and the bluish is the right handed torsion.
So, the work really mirrors the Russian work
and gives you much more confidence
about trusting that it's real.
And it has very practical implications.
For example, you were mentioning that
when we go to the north pole, there is a tendency
to have an opening of our psychic awareness.
This energy is produced by various things,
including spinning objects, so that if you're
at the north pole of our earth, looking down,
there's a left handed torsion field
produced by the earth's spinning
that enhances our psychic ability.
But Reichenbach did not look much into that,
but Kozyrev did.
And so if you read that Psychic Discoveries book,
he talks to the interviewers about the effects
at different times of the year
with growing plants, with what happens
in north pole versus south pole,
and basically, by the time they were interviewing him,
the Russians already knew how to use this torsion force
to enhance psychic ability.
And he actually says that, so.
That's pretty incredible, because of course that's
not anything that's been emerging out of the American
or European bodies of sciences, even at this time.
So they were way ahead of the game.
And I mean, having mucked around in this field
for a couple decades,
I was doing interviews with what was going on then,
some experiments with Russel Targ, for example,
behind The Iron Curtain back then, with remote viewing,
which is something that you have personal experience with
as well, and I want to talk about that in a minute.
Just going back for a moment to the magnets,
You were also saying that you can place the north end
of a magnet in the area we casually call the third eye
that has a lot of glandular function behind it, right?
And?
Well, what Kozyrev says is that the left handed torsion
enhances psychic ability, and the south pole of a magnet
has the left handed torsion.
There are American magnet healing researchers
like Davison Ralls, who have written several books
about magnetic healing,
and they've tried the same experiment independently,
and they find that the south pole of a magnet does
enhance psychic ability.
So we have some confirmation of Kozyrev's claim.
I have not tried it, but you have to do some careful
experiments, but they say only ten minutes or so
with a magnet on your third eye will help.
Interesting. And again, tell people which pole again.
This question caused me quite a bit of pain,
writing the book, because I discovered that
the magnetic healers had a different terminology
than the Russians and most physicists do,
so basically, the way to find out is to take a magnet
with a bar magnet with one pole north, one pole south,
put it on a string, see which way turns toward the north.
Compass needles, for example,
are designed so that one end turns toward the north.
However, it turns out that in the arctic,
where our geographic north pole is,
there's actually a magnetic south pole.
So the one that points in that direction
in your little magnet will be the north pole of the magnet.
So that's important, because the magnetic healers
have a convention that's completely opposite.
That's important to know.
We're talking about this through a different lens.
And you also talked about the fact that this same kind
of blush light can be seen by sensitives, by some people,
and also coming out the tip of a crystal.
Right.
What would that mean...
if you have a crystal in your possession,
if you were to point the tip of the crystal
in this third eye area, by association, is that correct,
or could that have some kind of potential?
It could be. That makes complete sense.
Basically, a crystal has two ends, like you say.
Normally the one that grows that's in contact
with the earth, growing out of the earth,
has the south pole energy, has the reddish energy
as perceived by sensitives.
And so that should be that one
that would enhance psychic ability.
The question of how strong they are, how big they are,
I haven't seen anybody talking about doing that,
but theoretically... that makes total sense.
I was putting some pieces together
while you were talking, and theoretically
it made sense to me too.
We'll go back to remote viewing now, because
when you're talking about this left hand torsion,
we're talking about also cosmic effects,
and we're talking about, as you said earlier,
looking at astrology from a sidereal standpoint.
We're looking at the effect of certain
positions of the stars.
And you talked about Virgo.
Encapsulate what you were saying about that.
A statistician named James Spoteswood,
10 or 15 years ago was looking at lots and lots of data
on remote viewing and psychic ESP experiments,
things like that, trying to see if there was some factor
that enhanced your ability to receive information,
made you more accurate.
And he looked at everything, including weather,
and time of day, and all those things.
The only thing that had a positive response
was where the stars are when you're receiving.
You're most accurate as an ESP or psychic perceiver
when the constellation Virgo is overhead.
The astronomers call this 13.5 hours sidereal.
It tells you which stars exactly are overhead,
but it's roughly Virgo.
It turns out there's a very unusual concentration of
what they call dark matter in that part of the sky.
Astronomers call it The Great Attractor
because dark matter is essentially something where
there's too much gravity, or the gravitational force
is so strong, they can't really explain it by the matter
they can see there, but they can tell from the motions
there's a lot of gravity there.
That would be associated by the Russians
with left handed torsion.
Therefore, it looks like that would be the region
where left hand torsion should be very strong in the sky
and we're just finding out from Kozyrev,
left handed torsion enhances ESP.
So we might have an explanation for Spoteswood's
observation that that part of the sky is where we have
the strongest ESP effect.
So that's the proposal, and it makes a lot of sense to me.
It does make sense. That's very interesting
because you're talking about dark matter,
you're also, as its compliment talking about dark energy,
we're talking about expansion and contraction
of consciousness, we're at a Yuga Cycle conference,
which is about cyclical expansion and contraction
of consciousness.
How does this left hand torsion, how does Virgo
feed into these larger cycles of awakening and then
falling back asleep?
As you know, by looking back in the historical record,
the accounts that the Hindus have of history,
the Vedic cycles, there are stories that suggest that
we had a golden age.
Roughly every 24,000 years or so we have these cycles
of golden ages and dark ages,
and we're now by that calculation in a rising time
when consciousness is increasing, people are becoming
more intuitive, more tuned in to things.
So the Yuga Cycle Conference is talking about,
number one, the evidence for such a cycle,
and, number two, how could it possibly be understood?
How can we explain such a thing?
So the dark matter, dark energy come in
as a possible explanation.
My theory that I propose at the conference is that...
Walter Cruttenden has talked about the idea
that we're orbiting around some other unknown star,
a dark star as he calls it.
And therefore our solar system is not just
sitting in one place in space, but actually moves in space,
and at different times of year or of this long cycle,
may be moving in different directions.
So if we are moving toward Virgo, for example,
at a particular time, that might enhance the
effect of Virgo, that's the theory,
and might increase the effect of intuition.
If it's affecting intuition, then it's affecting our
understanding of our world, technology,
everything is expanding...
People will have inventions more easily,
all kinds of ideas.
That's happening right now.
Right, it is. Exactly. Yeah.
And if it's happening now, according to the Yuga Cycle
theory, it's gonna keep increasing.
So we're in an area of great expansion
in terms of our consiousness.
And one of the things you also have talked about
is the notion that in relationship to the dark matter,
we're looking at time as a phenomena in a different way.
And I bring this up because I've read
in various esoteric literature, for example,
that time passed differently in ancient times.
We talk about the phenomena that people lived
to be 2, 3, 4, 600 years old in ancient times,
which has been documented in various texts.
How do you see all this playing in together?
Is time actually passing differently, or was there
some other different phenomena in terms of
atmospheric, or something, that allowed us
to live these lengths of time?
It could be both.
Torsion affects every other physical process.
So when left handed torsion or right handed torsion changes,
our physics that we have today is built on our measurements,
our observations, and they're based on the conditions
that we are in right now,
where those two properties have about an equal ratio,
and they have a certain balance that we're kind of used to -
This is normal for us.
But if that ratio changes a little bit,
the properties could change.
So our concept of time could change,
how long we live could change.
And you wonder, just atmospherically...
I had the pleasure of holding a little bone,
it wasn't so little relatively speaking,
it was the occipital bone that was
from a person who was around 23 to 25 feet fall.
And it had gone through all the anatomy labs
at the universities, it's the real deal.
I noticed it was quite porous.
So there is a possibility that, as you say,
it affects everything else.
And so perhaps there was less resistance, so to speak,
in our earthly environment we're living in,
with whatever this field of gravity is that allowed for
much larger types of entities to be here without
essentially just collapsing under their own weight.
This kind of thing. I mean, it's possible.
It's possible.
It's possible,
but the thing is, what I love about what you're
talking about is, my mind is going in a thousand directions
as to what is possible.
What has happened so far in some of the Russian work -
They are trying to apply this energy to devices
and technologies.
Some real basic ones...
If you take a photograph of the earth
from an airplane looking down,
which is how people look for minerals and things,
the torsion being emitted from the earth gets captured
by the photographic emulsion.
So they can analyze the emulsion
to get the torsion signature.
It's one more way of analyzing the mineral content
of the earth.
Interesting.
But even more far out, they have built a little chamber
where they have little generators outside the chamber
sending torsion waves into the chamber,
and they can make torsion waves which are either
right handed torsion or left handed torsion.
So it's a generator so to speak?
It's a generator, but it concentrates them
in a volume inside, and that speeds up or slows down
time inside this chamber.
They've done experiments with clocks, wristwatches,
for starters, but then with animals as well.
What were those experiments like?
One of the problems is that, if they don't have the
time density the same throughout the chamber,
there are bad health consequences.
Possibly! (laughs)
You don't want your arm to be caught in the same speed
as everything else.
But that's what they've been experimenting with, so,
I don't know how far this could go,
a time machine? I don't know.
But certainly slowing the rate
or speeding the rate of time
you can imagine all kinds of possible...
And they've been working on teleportation for a while,
and Michio Kaku is even talking about teleportation
becoming a relatively forthcoming reality.
Los Angeles could use it for the commute.
Yes they sure could.
So could you, as much as you're flying.
We just touched on, for a moment, remote viewing.
And when we're looking at these anomalies within time space,
when you take these other considerations into account,
we're looking at things such as remote viewing,
we're looking at distant healing,
and can you talk a little bit about how this
interfaces with our ability to look into or heal
at a distance, and either forward or backward in time?
One of the big challenges to Western science has been
trying to understand a lot of this stuff.
Healers can project their energy or can heal somebody
thousands of miles away.
When they do, it's like they're in
instantaneous contact with that person.
They often describe almost like a holographic image
of the person right in front of them,
and they can work on the holographic image of that organ
and have an effect on the person.
Our physics has no way to explain that right now.
Electromagnetism can't do it because distances...
It drops off where the distance is too weak.
Torsion appears to be a possible way of understanding
and explaining scientifically how long range healing works
as well as ESP and other psychic phenomena.
All those phenomena are alike in that they don't get
weaker with distance, they can transmit over huge distances,
and you can send signals forward and backward in time.
You're not limited to just the present.
So torsion appears to be the beginining of a new science
that could explain all this stuff, help create
a real science from it.
Thank goodness. Because no one was paying attention
to chi, or prana, I mean,
the people that are practicioners and use it
and understand it, qigong masters certainly pay attention,
these are some phenomenally highly-developed
people on this planet.
Right, right.
But for the Western mind, we need someone to do science
just to allow us to even contemplate the possibilities,
no less apply them, right?
Hasn't that been the problem?
Yes. I think that's the scientific naysayers,
and I understand it because I am a scientist
and I went through the conventional education,
when you come across some of this data, your mind
kind of boggles initially.
Like, how can that possibly be?
It goes against everything I learned in school,
therefore it must be wrong.
So you have to catch yourself on that point
and look at the data objectively.
And once you see that these things are real,
then step back and say, how can we change our science
to begin to understand some of this stuff.
Also you have the media playing into it as well.
If anything is new or different, the media almost feels
obliged to create a giggle factor and discredit it.
That's not helping with common perception,
but I think people are getting onto that.
The aspirin industry does not want healers around
making everybody feel good.
They want to sell their pills.
Well the good thing is, there are so many incredible...
especially in the world of physics,
people coming to the fore that have tiptoed out - "gulp"
and said, "Look, this is what I think is happening,"
which is meaning they're risking reputation,
they might even be risking tenure, in the worst of cases.
But we have Dean Radin, for example.
He's taking this information you're talking about,
which I guess you would call the torsion field,
and he's saying this has to do with entanglement, right?
So his word that he's applying is,
everything is entangled through the field
of consciousness or torsion.
I like the word torsion, and I like Russian scientists,
so, this works.
And then we have Konstantin Korotkov,
and he's been very successfully working with
finding ways to actually measure the subtle field.
Can you talk about that a bit? Cause that's been
a buggaboo, the fly in the ointment is
you can't measure it easily.
Yeah. I think his technique is one of the few and the best
available right now that does seem to be measuring it.
Basically what he's doing is called Kirlian photography.
You take a fingertip, for example, apply a small voltage,
a sharp short voltage across the fingertip
to a photographic plate, and you get a little spark.
And the spark image takes a picture, but it shows up
something that's not visible on the finger, something
that looks like what psychic healers call the aura.
It's something around the fingertip that has various colors
to it, and it seems to correlate with health.
What he has done is very systematic, careful surveys
of thousands of people, looking at their health qualities,
what problems they have, comparing it to the patterns,
and he's been able to produce a quantitative machine
that can produce a quantitative picture of what he calls
the aura, which seems like what the healers are seeing
as the aura, and it's based on his spark discharge images.
Now there are skeptics who will tell you that
if you put something inert, like a coin,
on this little machine, it'll make an aura too,
but if you look at the details of the information that comes
from his technology, there's a lot more to it than that.
And actually I've been able to correlate that with the
torsion work with the Russians, because it turns out
that right handed torsion and left handed torsion
both communicate information about the nature
of the physiological process.
One of them makes the spark bigger,
and the other makes the spark smaller.
So the spark size does correlate with
the kind of torsion that's present..
Interesting. And I think that Konstantin was also
working with environmental factors in his readings...
We're going to get back together
because we had such a short time today.
We're going to talk live from the studios in Boulder,
in a short time coming, hopefully, and get into a little bit
more of this, because Konstantin's work, for example
is showing the nature of these lade lines, water,
sacred sites, he's measuring all this to see why it is
that these - first of all, the ancients understood
something was going on and created great edifices
on these places.
And secondly, what they're capable of doing as a result
of being in these energetic hotspots.
And as I said a moment ago, they're beginning
to measure scientifcally.
When people are together, praying or meditating,
these devices also show the effects of that.
So we're creating or concentrating subtle energy or torsion
when we do conscious processes together.
So, it's exciting...
It is exciting.
Talk about what's on your site regarding that.
One of the things on my website is a page
called Global Peace Prayer.
We're in 2012.
A lot of people predict we may have some disruptions,
chaos, et cetera, and so I'm trying to use
synchronized prayer to increase our chances
of getting through this time in the most peaceful and loving
and forgiving way possible.
Because we have in many ways a wonderful
world we have created.
There's conflicts and hardships, but there's also
a lot of good things, and I think the best way
to move forward if we can is just to learn how to
maintain that and to keep people happy.
Stay focused on it.
Focused consciousness has
tremendous power to do that.
And that plays into these torsion fields, too,
which we're going to talk about a whole lot more
next time we get together.
Great.
Thank you so much for your time.
My pleasure.
For a greater understanding of the physics behind phenomena,
you might also enjoy my previous interview with Claude.
Meanwhile, Claude's four and a half pound book
cuts no corners in showing how the invisible works
in our lives.
You can find both The Synchronized Universe and Life Force
through all major booksellers.
Meanwhile, you might also enjoy our interviews
with Konstantin Korotkov and Harry Oldfield
on the photographing and measuring
of these subtle yet all-pervasive fields.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(ambient music)